# ZEOS Application
The ZEOS Application implements the [ZEOS Orchard Shielded Protocol](protocol.md) on the EOS public blockchain. At it's core there is the ZEOS smart contract maintaining all [Global Datasets](protocol/datasets.md) and a library for browser-based user interfaces which allows for easy creation of private transactions according to the [ZEOS Orchard Shielded Protocol](protocol.md).

## Technology
In order to be able to implement the protocol on the EOS public blockchain services of [LiquidApps](https://liquidapps.io/) are being utilized as it turned out that the zk-SNARK verification is too computationally expensive to be executed directly on chain (at this point in time). To work around this current limitation the [vcpu](https://liquidapps.io/vcpu) service of LiquidApps is utilized to execute zero knowledge proof verification off chain simultaneously on a network of DSPs. The same applies to the merkle path calculations of the [Commitment Tree](protocol/datasets.md#commitment-tree) which are too expensive to be executed on chain as well because of the [Sinsemilla](https://zcash.github.io/halo2/design/gadgets/sinsemilla.html) hash function. For the [Commitment Tree](protocol/datasets.md#commitment-tree) itself the [vram](https://liquidapps.io/vRam) service is utilized to save RAM costs. Since the merkle tree is kind of a 'write-only' data structure of which only the roots are required to verify its state on chain the using vram to store all merkle nodes is a perfect fit for this data structure. The same applies to the [Transmitted UTXO Ciphertext List](protocol/datasets.md#transmitted-utxo-ciphertext-list) which is used for the [In-band secret distribution of UTXOs](protocol/in-band.md). For the verifying key as well as all zero knowledge proofs the [LiquidStorage](https://docs.liquidapps.io/liquidapps-documentation/dapp-network-services/dapp-network-services/liquidstorage) service is utilized. It is possible to use cheap off chain storage for both, verifying key and proofs, since the proof verification is performed off chain using vcpu.